my name is Dana Colvin I'm a wife and a
mother to two beautiful children my
daughter Alexa is three and a half and
my son Cameron is one and a half I'm
also a full-time nurse at a hospital I
work in the acute care float pool we do
everything from Pediatrics to psychiatry
postpartum post surgical and telemetry
so between work and the kids and my
husband and the housework it definitely
is a very very busy life I recently
decided to become a NCC board certified
in medical surgical nursing
Diann McFarland's is a mentor to me she
is a my immediate supervisor but also a
friend and she is herself an CC
certified and she encouraged me to
become certified in a specialty myself
Dana is one of the nurses in the acute
care float pool which directly reports
to me in the organization I highly
encourage the nurses to get certified I
think that it really is that final seal
that validation of the excellent care
that they provide every day in and out
to the patients there's a major emphasis
on quality in patient care these days at
the national and local level and
certification is a means by which we use
to measure competency and assure our
patients and our clients that we're
delivering good quality care we don't
require nurses to be certified to work
at our organization but when I'm hiring
a nurse I do look for that certification
I believe a number one reason that a
nurse ought to be certified is the
personal and professional value that
that individual places on the commitment
to practice and committed individuals
generally do see a higher level of
excellence Diane encouraged us to go on
the NCC website and find out some
information about becoming certified I
recommend certification through a NCC
because being an affiliate of the
American Nurses Association they really
are getting certified at the top
pinnacle that organization that really
is the creme de la creme of certifying
bodies we know that their exams have
passed rigorous psychometric analysis so
that it is truly measuring what it says
it's measuring has got validity and
reliability the American Nurses
credentialing Center is the largest and
most prestigious credentialing
organization in the world
we have 25 certification exams in a
variety of specialties and we have a
long history of high quality insert
we know at ancc how busy nurses are and
it is often difficult for them to find
time to do extra things such as take a
certification exam so we do everything
possible to try to make it as easy as we
can for them I went on the NCC website
and printed out the outline of the most
likely questions there would be on the
exam then I bought a review course look
and studied from that I also took a
med-surg review course a NCC does a
great job of preparing candidates for
the certification exams they offer a
wide variety of seminars throughout the
United States and the candidate has an
opportunity to review what's on the exam
the content and they had their questions
answered by an NCC staff member they
have online study groups that they just
started which is very exciting we try to
make the process for certification as
convenient and easy as possible we have
online materials online applications we
tested over 300 centers in the u.s. that
are open 7 days a week and extended
hours when I was ready to take the exam
and CC made it very easy all I had to do
is go online punch in my zip code and
they told me a whole list of testing
sites that were near me I felt very
confident going into the exam between
the test content outline on the ancc
website the review book and the review
course I took I felt all covered the
content that was actually on the exam
itself
welcome to Prometric when you arrive at
the testing center they give you a
locker to put your things in then they
escort you into the testing area then
they give you a 15 minute tutorial of
how to go through the computerized exam
when that's completed the test starts
they give you three and a half hours to
complete 175 questions the questions
that were coming up I knew the answers
to made me feel very validated that I
had that I had studied the information
that was actually on the test and then
you come out and they give you the
results right then you don't have to
wait they told me that I passed and I
felt very very excited very very happy I
called Diane first thing when I got back
to her when Dana first came back from
being certified she certainly was
you know elated about it it was a very
exciting time for her and we were all
very happy but what I have seen is that
her level of professionalism just where
she looks at nursing now has grown she
always has been a wonderful nurse but
now she's really looking at well what
can I do to make the unit and to make
the profession better nurses sometimes
get stuck in their routine about the way
they do certain things in their practice
certification is a means by which they
can look at innovation look at new ways
of doing things best practices and then
they often bring that back to their
practice they have better tuned critical
thinking skills and they work much more
collaboratively with the administrative
team as well as the interdisciplinary
team I think they've gone a long way in
elevating the level of safety that we
provide within our organization it's a
lifelong process of learning and
certification often is at the root of
that learning process when the patients
see my badge with BC after it which
stands for board-certified they usually
comment and ask what it stands for and
when I tell them you can tell that
they're impressed and it does make a
difference in how they perceive you they
figure you must know what you're talking
about I would say to any nurse who asks
why they should be certified as
we're a profession and it's a
professional obligation to show that
we've got the clinical expertise and
knowledge to provide safe evidence-based
care to our patients I would definitely
recommend becoming certified in a
specialty to any nurse it shows that
you'll go the extra mile people think
that they don't have the time to study
or the time to take the tests and it's
really not true yeah I think my busy
life working full-time with two small
children I think if I can do it anybody
can do it I actually plan on going back
and doing another certification this
year probably in pain management I've
caught the certification bug now when I
look at nurses like Dana they really are
our nurses the future and so we all need
to really look at where do we see
ourselves going in the future and where
do we see nursing going in the future
and to be able to put ourselves in
places so that we're able to give the
patients the care that they deserve but
then also to move the profession of
Nursing on to that next level
I'm a certified nurse I'm a certified
nurse I'm a certified nurse
today I'm very proud to say that I'm an
a NCC board certified nurse